# 15-112-Term-Project
This is the game I created as the final project in my Fundamentals of Programming class, 15-112. This game was made purely using Python.

*NOTE: Due to possible copyright reasons, I have not uploaded the images and sounds used in this project into the Git repository. Thus, the game is technically unplayable without replacing those files. In order to play the game, you would have to create a separate 'images' directory and a 'sounds' directory inside the Project-Source-and-Support-Files directory, and replace the images and sounds with your own, placing them in those respective directories. 

# Overview: 
My project is a "bullet hell" type shoot 'em up game that focuses on players dodging an overwhelming number of bullets and defeating enemies. Enemies die after a certain number of hits, adding points to the total score, which will be tracked and placed onto a leaderboard after the player enters his/her name. At the end of the game is a boss, which the player must defeat to win the game.

# Installation: 
To run this game, you will need to have Python installed as well as Pygame and Pyganim, which is an animation module designed for use with pygame. pyganim.py is included in the directory with the other files. Specifically, the game will run optimally with Python 2.7.10 and Pygame 1.9.2, which can be downloaded and installed online. In addition, since the game offers server-based multiplayer, you will need to install PodSixNet, as well. The files for this are also included in the submission. Finally, you will need to install the eztext module in order to utilize the textboxes for entering player names to keep track of scores, and for entering the address for the server-based multiplayer.
 
# Playing the Game: 
To fully enjoy this game, you will need a mouse and keyboard to control your character. The game offers both a local singleplayer and two player mode. In the singleplayer mode, you can either use the mouse to control the character, or the keyboard, or both. In the two player mode, one person controls their sprite with the mouse while the other uses the keyboard. In addition to shooting at enemies, players can use a limited number of bombs to clear all onscreen enemies and bullets, and, in singleplayer mode, the player can press 'space' or 'shift' to slow down time, making it easier to dodge bullets. This ability uses up energy, which refills over time. The server-based multiplayer acts similarly to the local two player mode. However, in order to run it, you must first open the standard 'main.py' file and click on 'Server Multiplayer.' A window will pop-up telling you to enter an address for the server in the format of 'host:port.' If you don't enter anything, the default value is 'localhost:8000.' After submitting this, the file will host the game on the specified server and wait for two clients to connect. At this point, the two players that wish to connect must run the 'client.py' files separately. Once executing these files, they must go through the process of entering the address of the server again to connect. Once both players have connected, the game will begin.
